Download Link: https://assignmentchef.com/product/solved-cmsc-491-programming-assignment-http
<br>
<strong><u>Description</u></strong><strong>: </strong>




The goal of this assignment is to allow you to demonstrate your knowledge of HTTP requests and HTTP responses. We’ll be implementing a simple HTTP client and a simple HTTP server running version of HTTP/1.0. The goal is to get familiar with requests generated by your favorite web browser and responses from real web servers.







<h1>HTTPClient</h1>

<ul>

 <li>Your client should be named HTTPClient.java should or HTTPClient.py</li>

 <li>You are going to implement two methods of HTTP: <strong>GET</strong> and <strong>PUT</strong>.</li>

 <li>Your client take command line arguments specifying the needed parameters as follow for each operation.</li>

 <li><strong><u>Get</u> </strong></li>

</ul>

o Use the HTTP client to request data from a web server. Your client should be able to send requests and receive responses from any web server on the Internet. There is no need to write a server program to communicate with the client with GET command. o Your client should accept a single command-line argument: URL, which is the URL that it will request. There is no need to define GET command in the command line here.

<ul>

 <li>The URL will be given in the following format:</li>

</ul>

http://hostname[:port][/path] (only lowercase letters will be used)

<ul>

 <li>hostname – the web server’s hostname</li>

 <li>:port – an optional port, if not present, use port 80.</li>

 <li>path – the path from the web server’s main directory to the requested file, if this is not present, then the path is</li>

</ul>

‘/’

<ul>

 <li>Example: http://vcu.edu/index.html

  <ul>

   <li>If any of the arguments are incorrect, exit after printing an error message of the form ERR – arg x, where x is the argument number.</li>

   <li>Treat any URL as valid as long as it starts with http:// o Connect to the host given in the URL at the port given in the URL thru TCP connection.</li>

   <li>Handle exceptions as you wish — for example, if the host doesn’t exist or the port given is not open</li>

  </ul></li>

 <li>Submit a valid GET request for path/file given in the supplied URL using HTTP/1.0.

  <ul>

   <li>Your request must include the “<strong>Host</strong>” field (with the proper entry).</li>

   <li>Your request must include the “<strong>Time</strong>” field (with the proper entry).</li>

   <li>Your request must also include the “<strong>User-agent</strong>” field with the entry ‘VCU-CMSC491’.</li>

   <li>Your request must also include the “<strong>User-name</strong>” field with <strong><em>your first name</em></strong> as the entry.</li>

   <li>No other request fields are needed.</li>

   <li>Remember to end with extra CR/LF o Print the HTTP request sent to the server.</li>

   <li>Note: Print the actual string sent to the server.</li>

  </ul></li>

 <li>Parse the HTTP response header received from the server and print the following information:

  <ul>

   <li>Response code (number)</li>

   <li>Server type</li>

   <li>If the response code is in the 200-level:

    <ul>

     <li>Last modified date</li>

     <li>Number of bytes in the response data</li>

     <li>Store the received file (for example: index.html from http://www.vcu.edu/) in the current directory. If the response code is in the 300-level:</li>

     <li>The URL where the file is located</li>

    </ul></li>

   <li>Print the HTTP response header.</li>

   <li>In case you successfully received and stored a file, open the stored file using any browser to check it.</li>

   <li>Once you have this part of the client working, you should test it with the following two test cases:

    <ol>

     <li>Use it to get a file of your choosing from a “real” web server on the</li>

    </ol></li>

  </ul></li>

</ul>

Internet. For example,  java HTTPClient http://www.cnn.com/index.html

<ol start="2">

 <li>Use it to get a file from your own server program (next). For example, your server is running on 172.18.233.83, port number 10003. java HTTPClient http://172.18.233.83:10003/index.html Note that you can create your own index.html file (doesn’t to have a real HTML webpage file) or store any of a downloaded index.html files such as cnn index.html file.</li>

</ol>




<ul>

 <li><strong><u>PUT</u> </strong>

  <ul>

   <li>Use the HTTP client to put data only to your own web server (described next).</li>

   <li>Your client should accept a three command-line argument: PUT command, URL to where the files should be stored in the server, and the local path/filename of the file to transmit.</li>

   <li>The URL will be given in the following format:</li>

  </ul></li>

</ul>

http://hostname[:port] (only lowercase letters will be used)

<ul>

 <li>hostname – a CS Unix machine (use either atria or sirius)</li>

 <li>:port – only ports 10000-11000 are open for use.</li>

 <li>Example: http://172.18.233.83:10010</li>

 <li>The path/name of local file has the format: [path/]&lt;filename&gt;

  <ul>

   <li>path – the path of the location of the file to be transmitted at the current machine ,if this is not present, then the path is ‘/’</li>

   <li>&lt;filename&gt; is the name of the file that you intend to transmit to the server. If doesn’t exit, you</li>

  </ul></li>

 <li>Similarly, if any of the arguments are incorrect, exit after printing an error message of the form ERR – arg x, where x is the argument number.</li>

 <li>Connect to the host given in the URL at the port given in the URL thru TCP connection.

  <ul>

   <li>Handle exceptions as you wish — for example, if the file doesn’t exist, host doesn’t exist, or the port given is not open</li>

  </ul></li>

 <li>Submit a valid PUT request for path/file to be transferred to the webserver given in the supplied URL using HTTP/1.0.

  <ul>

   <li>Your request must include the “<strong>Host</strong>” field (with the proper entry).</li>

   <li>Your request must include the “<strong>Time</strong>” field (with the proper entry).</li>

   <li>Your request must also include the “<strong>User-agent</strong>” field with the entry ‘VCU-CMSC491’.</li>

   <li>Your request must also include the “<strong>User-name</strong>” field with <strong><em>your first name</em></strong> as the entry.</li>

   <li>No other request fields are needed.</li>

   <li>Remember to end with extra CR/LF o Print the HTTP PUT request sent to the server.</li>

   <li>Note: Print the actual string sent to the server. Do not send a request and then re-type the request for output.</li>

  </ul></li>

 <li>If the server is successful in receiving and storing the file, the server sends back a “200 OK File Created” response. Otherwise, the server sends back a “606 FAILED File NOT Created” response.</li>

 <li>Parse the HTTP response header received from the server and print the following information:

  <ul>

   <li>Response code (number)</li>

   <li>Server type o Print the HTTP response header.</li>

  </ul></li>

</ul>




<h1>HTTPServer</h1>

<ul>

 <li>Your server should be named HTTPServer.java should or HTTPServer.py</li>

 <li>It must accept a single command-line argument: port, which is the port that it will listen on for incoming HTTP requests.

  <ul>

   <li>If any of the arguments are incorrect, exit after printing an error message of the form ERR – arg x, where x is the argument number.</li>

   <li>The only error-checking that needs to be done on the port is to ensure it is a positive integer less than 65536.</li>

   <li>Remember that only ports 10000-11000 are open for use.</li>

  </ul></li>

 <li>The server should able to handle both HTTP commands: <strong>GET</strong> and <strong>PUT</strong>.</li>

 <li>For each new HTTP request, print the client’s IP address, port, and the request type in the format IP:port:request</li>

</ul>

Example: 172.18.233.83:63307:GET

<ul>

 <li>Print each line in the HTTP request.</li>

 <li>Construct a valid HTTP response including status line, any headers you feel are appropriate, and, of course, the requested file in the response body.</li>

 <li>For <strong><u>GET</u></strong>, If the server receives for example the “GET index.html HTTP/1.0” request, o Sends out “200 OK” to the client, followed by the file ./index.html.  o If the requested file doesn’t exist, the server sends out “404 Not Found” response to the client.</li>

 <li>For <strong><u>PUT</u></strong>, if the server receives the “PUT index.html HTTP/1.0” request, it will save the file as ./index.html.

  <ul>

   <li>If the received file from client is successfully created, the server sends back a “200 OK File Created” response to the client.</li>

   <li>Otherwise, the server sends back a “606 FAILED File NOT Created” response.</li>

  </ul></li>

 <li>The HTTP server program should remain running until the user closes it with Ctrl-C. The program should close the client socket after each request has been received (even if the browser is using HTTP/1.1), but leave the welcoming/listening socket open.</li>

 <li>Once you have your server working, you could test it with the following two test cases:</li>

</ul>

<ol>

 <li>Use a real browser (e.g., firefox) to GET a file from your server</li>

</ol>

<ul>

 <li>Note that you can download an index.html of any site and store in your server for the test.</li>

</ul>

<ol start="2">

 <li>Use your HTTPClient to GET/PUT a file</li>

</ol>







<strong><u>VM Linux Machines:</u></strong>

<ul>

 <li>Open “terminal” window either on Windows, Mac, or Unix machine.</li>

 <li>On terminal, type “ssh 172.18.233.83 –l &lt;eID&gt;” then your VCU password to authenticate. Note that &lt;eID&gt; is your VCU user login.</li>

 <li>To access another machine with different IP, open a new “terminal” and follow the previous step to connect to the class VM machine (172.18.233.83), and then type “ssh 172.16.49.2 -l &lt;eID&gt;” using the same set of credentials you used before.</li>

</ul>

<strong> </strong>

<strong><u>Rules:</u></strong>

<ul>

 <li>The only programming networking classes allowed are the basic socket classes that we’ve used with the examples. For example, java.net.URL is not allowed and urllib2 (Python) is not allowed.</li>

 <li>Your code should run on the VM Linux machines (e.g., 172.18.233.83). Remember that only ports 10000-11000 are open for use</li>

 <li>You are not permitted to work with anyone else (even students not in the class) – all of the coding and documentation must be your own.</li>

 <li>Your program must compile (if Java/C++) and run on the VM Linux machines.</li>

 <li>You must write neat code and document it well. You will lose points for sloppy programs that contain little or no comments.</li>

</ul>




<strong><u>Hints:</u></strong>

<ul>

 <li>Look back in your notes to recall how HTTP requests are formatted and terminated.</li>

 <li>Note that readLine() in Java strips off newline characters before returning a String.</li>

 <li>Use the equals() method in Java to compare two Strings.</li>

</ul>




<strong><u>Testing:</u></strong>

A large part of your program’s grade will be determined by how well it handles a set of inputs. You should test your program rigorously before submitting. Because your programs will be run and tested using a script, you must format your output exactly as I have described or you will lose points.




The examples below are just examples. I will test your programs rigorously. In particular, I will test your HTTP Client on a wide range of URLs.




<u>Example 1</u> java HTTPServer

Usage: java HTTPServer port







<u>Example 2</u>

In this example, after setting up the server (e.g., on 172.18.233.83), the user

opened a web browser (e.g., on 172.16.49.2) to the URL http://172.18.233.83:10003/my/url




cmsc491&gt; java HTTPServer 10003

172.16.49.2:33083:GET

GET /my/url HTTP/1.1

Host: 172.18.233.83:10003

User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; U; SunOS sun4u; en-US; rv:1.7) Gecko/20070606 Accept: text/xml,application/xml,application/xhtml+xml,text/html;q=0.9,text/plain;q=0.8,i mage/png,*/*;q=0.5

Accept-Language: en-us,en;q=0.5

Accept-Encoding: gzip,deflate

Accept-Charset: ISO-8859-1,utf-8;q=0.7,*;q=0.7

Keep-Alive: 300

Connection: keep-alive







<u>Example 3</u> java HTTPClient

Usage: java HTTPClient URL or java HTTPClient  PUT URL path/&lt;filename&gt;

<strong> </strong>

<u>Example 4</u> java HTTPClient http://www.egr.vcu.edu/directory/tamer.nadeem/files/foo.txt

GET /directory/tamer.nadeem/files/foo.txt HTTP/1.0

Host: www.egr.vcu.edu


